# SQL-Challenge

**Requirements**
Install a SQL database management system such as pgAdmin4.
Download the six CSV files provided in the Resources folder.
Download the two SQL files provided in the EmployeeSQL folder.

**Data Modelling**
The process involved inspecting CSV files in the "Resources" folder and creating an ERD diagram to show the relationship between relevant tables. The ERD diagram can be found in the "ERD_EmployeeSQL_Diagram" file in the EmployeeSQL folder.

**Data Engineering**
The task was to create table schema for six CSV files, specifying data types, primary keys, foreign keys, and other constraints, and then import the CSV files into the corresponding SQL table. The SQL analysis script can be found in the "DataEngineering.sql" file in the EmployeeSQL folder.

**Data Analysis**
In this section, we were tasked with writing SQL queries to provide answers to the following inquiries:

- Retrieve a list of employees along with their employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary.
- Retrieve a list of employees who were hired in 1986, including their first name, last name, and hire date.
- Retrieve a list of department managers and their details, such as department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name.
- Retrieve a list of employee department details, including department number, employee number, last name, first name, and department name.
- Retrieve a list of employees whose first name is Hercules and last name starts with B, including their first name, last name, and sex.
- Retrieve a list of employees who are in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name.
- Retrieve a list of employees who are in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name.
- Retrieve a frequency count, in descending order, of all employee last names to see how many employees share each last name.

The SQL analysis script can be found in the "DataAnalysis.sql" file in the EmployeeSQL folder.

**Reference**
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
